Now something that may be a stumbling block for you and often trips up engineers when they first start
out he's lugging when they tell that to a Rodda.
So in this example I'm going to connect to the Rodda
from my local Windows PC so I'm going to connect the router to the outside world and I'm just going
to use my Local Area Connection Card to connect to Jena's three to the outside world.
And then what I'll do is connect the router to the cloud
so on rather one interface if a zero slash one.
This is the interface connected to the outside world.
I'm going to shut the interface and type IP address DHC so that the router gets an IP address via a
DHV.
So hopefully I should see a message stating that an address has been allocated in this case she can
see that an address level 6 in slog which is an informational message shows me that an address has been
assigned to the Rogers is interface with this IP address.
So in Windows I'll tell that to the Rodda who told that I need a password.
Line Viti 0 4 luggin password Cisco enable Posawatz Cisco.
Obviously in the real world you'll use a better password than that but that's fine for our demonstration.
So show logging.
Now according to this I have debugging a level of monitoring on a monitor.
So let's check the debugging showed debug.
This is on the console.
You can see OSPF adjacency events.
Debugging is enabled so let's see if we get any output on our telnet session I'll shut down the interface
on Rodda to and then enable it so notice I'm getting debugs on the console but nothing is displayed
on the telnet session.
Lots of debugging on the console.
Nothing on the telnet session and that's because you have to type terminal monitor or turn Mon so term
monitor for terminal monitor or month for short.
Any one of those options will do.
So let's try now shut the interface and write it to No shutout and notice suddenly I'm seeing debugging
messages on both the console as well as the telnet session.
So don't forget that you can set logging on I'll do that through the console.
You can set the logging for a monitor line but by default the output is not displayed on your telnet
session.
You must type terminal monitor.
You don't have to do that on a console.
So to foretop terminal monitor notice I'm told that the console already monitors.
You don't have to enable terminal monitor on the console.
By default debugging and syslog messages will be displayed on the console but that won't be displayed
on a telnet to line.
So as an example if I press controls Zahed control Z on the terminal so the Viti y line I see output.
But if I type term no monitor and do that again.
Controls to control Z.
I don't see anything on the terminal line.
It's a term one very important to remember that allows you to see debugging messages and console messages
so slug messages on the Viti one line.
It's not there by default.